well behind on the screen you can see
something like a pink line over there
that's Logic Pro X open with one track
highlighted in pink that's what we are
going to be looking at today
that pink track forms a very very
important part of something about this
beat well it's the cord plugs what are
the cord plugs let's take a look at it
now whenever you're making a deep house
EDM track I think a muffled pad is
something very very important than the
track and that's what we are going to be
doing right now we've got a cord which
we've got set and we need to make that
call a little bit muffled you know it
gives a little bit of a dark but a nice
feel to the track so what we're going to
be doing is opening up our es2 synth
once again to mention to you the es2
synth is a logic pro x synth and it's
not an external third party since so you
can just download Logic Pro and yes -
will pop up in your instrument section
so we open up the es - we get a sound
which is a chord sound which is a preset
from the ES to itself we randomly take
some chords Reckitt order this song is
an E minor so we're going to be taking
calls which go with E minor and what
we've done is got a sound just like this
basically what I've done over here is
I've just taken the notes G - B - and
III and I've played the chord once but
I've sliced the notes down to give it a
sort of a rhythmic feel so what it
sounds like is this and now if you
listen to the same thing with the beat
this is what its gonna sound like let's
listen to our bass and the groove that
we created in the last three episodes
and let's see how this rhythmic cord
plug sounds with the whole groove and
the bassline
once let's listen to the track without
the code just the groove and the bass
and when you put on the chords you see
how much difference it gives it just
from it just changes the whole track
this particular muffled chord from es to
which comes in the rhythm it chord which
goes that that that that not that that
that that that that that that it just
sort of gives you it you know then it
sort of throws an instruction to you
this is a nice deep house track so let's
listen to it once again with the corner
well what I've done with the chord is
also that after playing the chord and
then slicing it up and using the sound
from es2 to play the chord it sounds
really nice and with the Mik but I have
processed the sound like I told you I
always put an equalizer on my sound well
I wanted I would not say I wanted it but
every deep house track when the chords
are played of the pads are played
they're slightly muffled you know so it
gives you a little bit of a dark field
so what I've done is kept the low
frequencies the way they are but just to
give the track a little bit more volume
a little bit more clarity and to make it
you know a sound clean when you're
listening it to the mix I have increased
the highs in the midst of the track a
little bit
so the plucky chord has got low
frequencies the way they're unchanged
slightly increased mids and highs in the
EQ one thing which I like to use again
in most of my tracks is the compressor
that's something which I use often on
and practically most of my tracks so
I've also put on a compressor on this
track the compressor basically what it
does it it just gives a little bit of a
feel and it brings the sound out there
so I've used a compressor as well on the
chords and another thing which I've done
is if you listen to the sound carefully
the sound is being slightly filtered
let's listen to this in solo and what
you'll notice is that the sound is
muffled it suddenly becomes clean and
then it goes back to being muffled I
have used a filter for it once again
like I told you friends have not used
anything third-party and all these
filters EQs and compressors are built in
with Logic Pro X so let's listen to the
pluck called solo and see how the filter
sounds with it in it getting clear and
there we go and back down so what we've
done is we've made the track muffled all
the way but just when we are making some
change in the track you know like how
you would put an effect instead of
putting the effect I just use the filter
to take it higher higher make it clean
give it those high frequencies and then
suddenly make it muffled so that just
shows that you know something is going
to happen and then yes the next sound is
introduced so with the cord plugs what
we have is the ES to sound the equalizer
the compressor and last but not the
least the filter which gives it that
nice edge to the sound let's listen to
the whole thing
once again the kick the bass and the
cord
and we have the rest of the instruments
here you go you have your cord plug all
set and ready stay tuned to digits okay
so unplug then next week we'll come back
on putting something very very different
and nice in a deep house track we're
going to be getting into a slightly
classical sound so stay tuned